{
  "title": "The EEF Board is Having its 2021 Election",
  "author": "Fred Hebert",
  "slug": "election-2021",
  "category": "eef",
  "tags": ["eef", "board", "elections"],
  "datetime": "2021-02-25T23:53:33.735496Z"
}
---
---

The Erlang Ecosystem Foundation is set up as a community organisation, to be run for and by the community. As such, the role of board member is assigned by a democratic process, where voting members get to run and vote for their preferred candidates.

The process to be followed is described in legalese in our bylaws, but this page will explain more clearly how we plan for this to be working forwards.

## Important Dates

The following dates are important to the campaign:

- February 26: Elections announced, people can submit their candidacy
- March 11: Last day to submit your candidacy. Email acceptance ends at midnight PT on the 12th
- March 12: Votes are open
- March 19: Votes are closed

Election results will be announced as soon as possible after closing.

Do not forget to make sure you are a [voting member](#how-to-vote) to take part into the elections.

## What Does a Board Member do?

Board members' main involvement is essentially to [sit in meetings](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1b3dnc6jIQ2ZdT3dC3Gjgjx1DQXR0GE9J) (usually over video chat), and vote on the direction the foundation will take. They are responsible for things such as:

- Choosing how to allocate the budget of the Foundation (within the regulations specified by the bylaws and the IRS)
- Choosing which working groups are going to be accepted
- Choosing which working groups may be contracted if they are not meeting their objectives
- Handling administrative details (such as running these elections)
- Helping coordinate efforts across working groups
- Have the ability to change and adjust bylaws
- Bear the responsibility and be accountable for the Foundation's ongoing success

It is ultimately a fairly political job focused on "running the foundation", distinct from the more direct involvement people in specific working groups usually have. Board members are not precluded from being part of working groups either.

Additionally, the roles of Director and Secretary can only be assigned to people on the board; they are the people who have all the actual administrative duties related to legal paperwork (writing actual signatures!), finance, insurance, maintaining meeting minutes, and ensuring that bylaws are respected by the rest of the board.

None of these roles are compensated; this is a volunteer effort because you care to steer the foundation in a direction you believe is important. You may also put the role of board member on your LinkedIn page or resume if that suits you.

## Who are the Outgoing Board Members?

While the founding members assigned themselves to be part of the board as part of the initial bootstrapping effort, the board has been randomly divided into three cohorts, `A` (containing 3 members), `B` (4 members), and `C` (4 members). To ensure continuity, only one cohort is re-elected each year. This means that you will be elected for 3 years at a time.

Here are the cohorts as defined until the next election:

<ul>
    <li><code class="inline">A</code>, to be re-elected in 2022, 2025, and every three years after:
        <ul>
            <li>José Valim</li>
            <li>Richard Carlsson</li>
            <li>Kenneth Lundin</li>
        </ul>
    </li>

    <li><code class="inline">B</code>, to be re-elected in 2021, 2024, and every three years after:
        <ul>
            <li>Peer Stritzinger</li>
            <li>Maxim Fedorov</li>
            <li>Benoit Chesneau</li>
            <li>Miriam Pena</li>
        </ul>
    </li>

    <li><code class="inline">C</code>, to be re-elected in 2023, 2026, and every three years after:
        <ul>
            <li>Sebastian Strollo (current Secretary)</li>
            <li>Fred Hebert</li>
            <li>Alistair Woodman (current President)</li>
            <li>Francesco Cesarini</li>
        </ul>
    </li>
</ul>

For this first election, the members of cohort `B` are to be re-elected, so the seats of Peer, Maxim, Benoit, and Miriam are up for grabs.

Furthermore, José Valim is going to be stepping down from his seat on Cohort A in order to have more time to focus on working groups, and will remain active within the foundation. Whoever runs for the board and gets the fifth most votes in the election will be able to serve the remainder of José's term, and be re-elected in 2022.

We therefore need 5 people to fill in the seats this year!

## How to Run?

If you want to run, you must be a voting member. Voting members are members who have done the following:

- A paying member [paying their yearly membership or having paid for a lifetime membership](https://members.erlef.org/join-us)
- A contributing member, who has spent about 5 hours monthly working in a working group, and who has contacted us at [voting@erlef.org](mailto:voting@erlef.org) to claim their voting rights
- A managing member, who leads a working group and who has contacted us at [voting@erlef.org](mailto:voting@erlef.org) to claim their voting rights
- A board member, who has a de-facto membership.

If you want to run, you should contact us at [voting@erlef.org](mailto:voting@erlef.org) with the following information:

- Your name
- A short biography describing who you are
- A short text explaining why you think people should vote for you
- A photo (optional)

If eligible, you will then be added to the [list of candidates](#who-are-the-current-candidates) on this page and on the ballots.

You have until end of day **March 11 2021** Pacific time (PST) to submit your candidacy.

<h2 id="how-to-vote">How to Vote?</h2>

You first have to have the right to vote, as a voting members. Voting members are members who have done the following:

- registered as a paying member [paying their yearly membership or having paid for a lifetime membership](https://members.erlef.org/join-us)
- acted as a contributing member, who has spent about 5 hours monthly working in a working group, and who has contacted us at [voting@erlef.org](mailto:voting@erlef.org) to claim their voting rights
- A managing member, who leads a working group and who has contacted us at [voting@erlef.org](mailto:voting@erlef.org) to claim their voting rights

The election will be open on **March 20 2021**, from midnight PST and for the next 7 days, **until March 27 2021**. On that day, a link will be sent to you to the address defined [in your member profile](https://members.erlef.org/Sys/Profile). The link will forward you to a form, which will contain a list of all the candidates. Since four chairs are up for re-election, you will get to pick 4 candidates. Once you will have voted, you will not be able to change your votes. The candidates with the most votes will be part of the board for the next 3 years.

<h2 id="who-are-the-current-candidates">Who are the Current Candidates?</h2>

This list will be expanded as new candidacies are received

- No Profile has been submitted yet. New candidacies will be added to this page and announced on the Foundation's [twitter account](https://twitter.com/TheErlef).


